# NOTES


Chapter 1

Eclipse is an IDE for multiple programming languages, such as Java, C++, and Python. 
Eclipse contains different perspectives for your needs, which are a set of views and editors 
in the Eclipse workbench.

Apache Maven is a software project management tool that makes the software 
development process simpler and also unifies the development process.

The POM is a pom.xml file that 
contains basic information about a project. There are also all the dependencies that Maven 
should download to be able to build a project

Logging can be used to monitor your application flow, and it is a good way to capture 
unexpected errors in your program code.There are seven different levels of logging: TRACE, DEBUG, INFO, WARN, ERROR, FATAL, 
and OFF.

Chapter 2
DI is a software development technique where we can create objects that depend on other 
objects. DI helps with interaction between classes but at the same time keeps the classes 
independent

Constructor injection: Dependencies are passed to a client class constructor. 
An example of the constructor injection was already shown in the preceding Car
example code.
Setter injection: Dependencies are provided through setters. The following example 
code shows an example of the setter injection:

The DI reduces dependencies in your code and makes your code more reusable. It also 
improves the testability of your code. 

Chapter 3

An entity class is a simple Java class that is annotated with JPA's @Entity annotation. 
Entity classes use the standard JavaBean naming convention and have proper getter and 
setter methods. The class fields have private visibility

The Spring Boot Data JPA provides a CrudRepository interface for Create, Read, 
Update, and Delete (CRUD) operations. It provides CRUD functionalities to our 
entity class

You can define your queries in the Spring Data repositories. The query must start 
with a prefix; for example, findBy. After the prefix, you must define the entity 
class fields that are used in the query. 

Chapter 4

Representational State Transfer (REST) is an architectural style for creating web 
services. REST is not a standard, but it defines a set of constraints defined by Roy Fielding.

Stateless: The server doesn't hold any information about the client state.
Client: The client and server act independently. The server does not send any 
information without a request from the client.
Cacheable: Many clients often request the same resources; therefore, it is useful to 
cache responses in order to improve performance.
 Uniform interface: Requests from different clients look the same. Clients may 
include, for example, a browser, a Java application, and a mobile application.
Layered system: REST allows us to use a layered system architecture.
 Code on demand: This is an optional constraint
 
 Identification of resources: There are resources with their unique identifiers, for 
example, URIs in web-based REST services. REST resources should expose easily 
understood directory structure URIs. Therefore, a good resource naming strategy is 
very important.
Resource manipulation through representation: When making a request to 
a resource, the server responds with a representation of the resource. Typically, the 
format of the representation is JSON or XML

Self-descriptive messages: Messages should have sufficient information that the 
server knows how to process them.
 Hypermedia as the Engine of Application State (HATEOAS): Responses can 
contain links to other areas of service.

Chapter 5

By default, Spring Security enables the following features:
An AuthenticationManager bean with an in-memory single user. The 
username is user, and the password is printed to the console output.
 Ignored paths for common static resource locations, such as /css and /images. 
HyperText Transfer Protocol (HTTP) basic security for all other endpoints.
 Security events published to Spring's ApplicationEventPublisher interface.
Common low-level features are on by default (HTTP Strict Transport Security
(HSTS), cross-site scripting (XSS), cross-site request forgery (CSRF), and so forth).
 Default autogenerated login page

A JWT contains three different parts, separated by dots: xxxxx.yyyyy.zzzzz. These parts are 
broken up as follows:
 The first part (xxxxx) is the header that defines the type of the token and the 
hashing algorithm.
 The second part (yyyyy) is the payload that, typically, in the case of authentication, 
contains user information.
 The third part (zzzzz) is the signature that is used to verify that the token hasn't 
been changed along the way

Chapter 15

If you are going to use your own server, the easiest way to deploy the Spring Boot 
application is to use an executable Java ARchive (JAR) file.

Docker is a container platform that makes software development, deployment, and 
shipping easier. Containers are lightweight and executable software packages that include 
everything that is needed to run software









